---
title: "52"
date: 2021-12-27T09:24:45-08:00
# slug: 52
---

This week was a little rocky, which I attribute to a combination of a "holiday
hangover" -- time spent celebrating rather than recharging -- along with most of
the team being off. They all deserve the time off -- I could not continue
building Polytomic without them -- but it did mean more on my shoulders.

That said I managed to ship a few things that have been on my radar for a while.

---

First, completing ripping out [sqlc](https://github.com/kyleconroy),
standardizing on [go-pg](). Do not take this as an endorsement of one over the
other: if SQLc made it easy to fetch related objects and let me split up my
models in different packages, we never would have looked elsewhere. Rather,
consider it an endorsement of the "one way principle":

> There should be one-- and preferably only one --obvious way to do it.

The other notable database-related improvment was finally figuring out what was
causing `EOF` errors when querying Postgres from Go. We'd figured out that it
seemed to be related to the client using a connection the server had closed, but
couldn't figure out _why_. Lowering the maximum age for connections in the pool
had helped, but it still popped up now and again. Interestingly, finally
consolidating on go-pg led to it occurring more frequently.

After realizing we were making a Redis call while the transaction was open --
and noticing that our Redis load has been steading increasing -- I raised
`idle_in_transaction_session_timeout` and the problem disappeared immediately.
TIL.

---

I also finally migrated my personal website off of WordPress and onto Hugo. I've
been running WordPress for quite a while, and have been hosting at Dreamhost for
several years. But it's never felt like a good value: I simply haven't been
posting enough to make it worthwhile. It took some wrangling, but I'm back in
`text/plain` land. One thing that I'm still not 100% clear on is how templates
work. Like, I've managed to get it working _enough_, but I wish it was clearer
at a glance what template is called when.
