---
title: 'PyCon Day 2'
author: Nathan Yergler
type: post
date: 2004-03-25T17:09:54+00:00
excerpt: |
  <p>Today is the second day of <a class="reference external" href="http://pycon.org">PyCon</a>, and while I have
  enjoyed the talks I’ve attended, I’ll admit that a)I was a little
  preoccupied with my own presentation and b)I’m tired. The day started
  with a keynote by GvR on the future of Python. Nothing ...</p>
url: /2004/03/25/pycon-day-2/
categories:
  - geek

---
Today is the second day of [PyCon][1] , and while I have enjoyed the talks I’ve attended, I’ll admit that a)I was a little preoccupied with my own presentation and b)I’m tired. The day started with a keynote by GvR on the future of Python. Nothing earth shattering, but interesting none the less. If anything, I was a little suprised the hear that while 2.4 is coming this summer (probably), 3.0 is a ways off. I guess I shouldn’t be suprised: the >= 2.3 series is incredibly powerful and featurful. I just thought 3.0 would have a more definite time table.

The morning was spent in the [Zope][2]  track. Jim Fulton presented the [Zope Development Roadmap][3] , which wasn’t really anything new to me. Joel Burton’s presentation on PostgreSQL in Python and Zope was interesting in a peripheral sort of way. I don’t currentlyhave any plans to use PostgreSQL over MySQL, but he did have some “best practice” suggestions that Vern and I agreed would be good to roll into Stoa. [Our presentation][4]  on the development of Stoa rounded out the morning.

As I predicted, we had no problem filling the half hour time slot, which was good: I knew I was going to talk fast because I was nervous, so people just assumed I was talking fast to stay within the time limit. A few interesting notes: I probably pissed off the [Plone][5]  people when I declared that I couldn’t ever figure out how it would make my life better. I stand by that, but I had my ear bent after the presentation by enough people that I want to check it out again. Even though there were plenty of Plone supporters, most of them agreed: the state of Plone when we looked at it before probably did turn us off. I also had a couple of people approach me wanting to know where they could get the code. It will be available; soon. In general the reaction seemed positive, and I think we built some definite interest in Stoa as a project.

After lunch I attended [Travis Hartwell’s][6]  session on Python and <span class="caps">GTK</span>. I was impressed with how little code is really necessary to build <span class="caps">GTK</span> interfaces. Of course, unless the non-X11 MacOS X port starts moving (and fast), I doubt I’ll use it much. [wxPython][7] , for all it’s warts and problems, stills does the best cross-platform GUIs I’ve seen. The rest of the time before the break was spent in lightning talks. These were generally interesting, especially [Graham Fawcett’s][8]  presentation about [Victor][9] , a course management system he’s working on at the University of Windsor. He’s using Quixote, and it looks like the light-weigh approach has allowed him to build an impressive project quickly.

<table class="docutils field-list" frame="void" rules="none">
  <col class="field-name" /> <col class="field-body" /> <tr class="field">
    <th class="field-name">
      date:
    </th>

    <td class="field-body">
      2004-03-25 17:09:54
    </td>
  </tr>

  <tr class="field">
    <th class="field-name">
      wordpress_id:
    </th>

    <td class="field-body">
      102
    </td>
  </tr>

  <tr class="field">
    <th class="field-name">
      layout:
    </th>

    <td class="field-body">
      post
    </td>
  </tr>

  <tr class="field">
    <th class="field-name">
      slug:
    </th>

    <td class="field-body">
      pycon-day-2
    </td>
  </tr>

  <tr class="field">
    <th class="field-name">
      comments:
    </th>

    <td class="field-body">
    </td>
  </tr>

  <tr class="field">
    <th class="field-name">
      category:
    </th>

    <td class="field-body">
      geek
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

 [1]: http://pycon.org
 [2]: http://www.zope.org
 [3]: http://pycon.org/dc2004/talks/index_html#zope-dev
 [4]: http://tech.canterburyschool.org/tech/PyCon_2004
 [5]: http://plone.org/
 [6]: http://travishartwell.net
 [7]: http://wxpython.org
 [8]: http://fawcett.medialab.uwindsor.ca/
 [9]: http://fawcett.medialab.uwindsor.ca/cms/FrontPage