---
title: The Habit
author: Nathan Yergler
type: post
date: 2020-06-25T16:27:54+00:00
url: /2020/06/25/the-habit/
classic-editor-remember:
  - block-editor
categories:
  - Uncategorized
tags:
  - habit
  - meta
  - practice

---
<div class="wp-block-group">
  <div class="wp-block-group__inner-container">
    <p>
      A mentor, <a href="https://naomiceder.tech/">Naomi</a>, once told me &#8220;it&#8217;s more fun to write programs that help you write programs than it is to write programs&#8221;. While funny &#8212; and true, at least for me &#8212; I think what she was getting at is something a little more general: meta-work is a way of distracting ourselves from the real work. Or, more nefariously, meta-work is a way of feeling like we&#8217;re accomplishing something when we&#8217;re standing still (with respect to our goals).
    </p>
    
    <p>
      This has been coming up for me recently around blogging and blogging software. I had a really good blogging habit for a while, and it served me well. Arguably I have my career because of it. Today when I read something interesting and want to comment, amplify, or rebut part of it, my thoughts <em>still</em> go to publishing. But I&#8217;ve lost the habit, the muscle, so instead I dither. I focus on how much I pay for WordPress hosting<span id="44e2a2d2-3b1f-4d19-9438-059c31e846fd" class="abt-footnote" contenteditable="false" data-note=" I pay because a few years ago I was trying to get myself out of a similar rut, this time around what VPS to use and how to secure it. That time I told myself, "><sup>​*​</sup></span>. I <code>view-source</code> and look for tell-tale signs of what tool another author is using. I familiarize myself with headless CMSes, flat files, and &#8220;IndieWeb&#8221; standards. What I do not do is write.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Almost inevitably two things happen. First, I run out of time: I have to get back to work, I have to make dinner, etc. And second, when I finally return to the open browser tabs &#8212; now 90% meta, 10% what I wanted to reflect on &#8212; I say to myself, &#8220;why the fuck not wordpress? it&#8217;s not like it&#8217;s done anything to you in the past; yeah, it&#8217;s not new, and it&#8217;s not written in a language you&#8217;re enamoured with today, but it&#8217;s not like you have time to hack on it anyway. And if you did, you could do a lot worse than plugging into an ecosystem that big. Suck it up.&#8221; And then I close the tabs because I&#8217;m annoyed with how much time I&#8217;ve plowed into not-writing.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Later me is right: writing my own blogging software is in no way a good use of my time right now; I am not not-writing because of the software; using <a href="https://jekyllrb.com/"><s>Jekyll</s></a> <a href="https://gohugo.io/"><s>Hugo</s></a> <a href="https://blog.getpelican.com/"><s>Pelican</s></a> <a href="https://joinplu.me/"><s>Plume</s></a> will not suddenly cause me to blog; making <a href="https://indieweb.org/POSSE">POSSE</a> work is not a way to rebuild the blogging muscle; my theme is not my problem; post formats do not matter; Guttenberg didn&#8217;t reduce my likelihood to post; the list goes on.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Sometimes meta work is an interesting, high leverage way to approach things: there have been times I wrote a program that helped me write a program, and the result was doing something in a few days that we thought would take a few weeks<span id="82f42017-05b1-4dda-b5d4-36223c545181" class="abt-footnote" contenteditable="false" data-note="For example, the time I wrote a codemod using jscodeshift that added sane security defaults to Lob's entire API codebase."><sup>​†​</sup></span>. The difference is, in those cases, I was already actively using the mental muscles I needed, I was already in &#8220;the habit&#8221;. When it comes to writing, making art, or sewing, the habit is really all that matters.
    </p>
  </div>
</div><section class="wp-block-abt-footnotes abt-footnotes" role="region" aria-label="Footnotes">

* * *

<li id="44e2a2d2-3b1f-4d19-9438-059c31e846fd-ref" class="abt-footnotes-item">
  <div class="abt-footnotes-item__marker">
    <sup>​*​</sup>
  </div>
  
  <div class="abt-footnotes-item__content">
    I pay because a few years ago I was trying to get myself out of a similar rut, this time around what VPS to use and how to secure it. That time I told myself, &#8220;it doesn&#8217;t fucking matter, just pay to have someone else deal with this, and find a managed service.&#8221; And I&#8217;ve resented them ever since, despite the great service they provide. Probably because I&#8217;m not using the service I pay for.
  </div>
</li>

<li id="82f42017-05b1-4dda-b5d4-36223c545181-ref" class="abt-footnotes-item">
  <div class="abt-footnotes-item__marker">
    <sup>​†​</sup>
  </div>
  
  <div class="abt-footnotes-item__content">
    For example, the time I wrote a codemod using <a href="https://github.com/facebook/jscodeshift">jscodeshift</a> that added sane security defaults to <a href="https://lob.com">Lob&#8217;s</a> entire API codebase.
  </div>
</li></section>