---
title: What’s New
date: 2004-11-23T10:24:30.000Z
categories:
  - my life
slug: whats-new
---
I just realized that it’s been over two weeks since I last posted, so here’s a quick run down of what I’ve been up to. More details at 6.

<ul class="simple">
  <li>
    Garrett and I spent a long weekend in Las Vegas. We scheduled the trip to coincide with a trip his friend from graduate school was taking so we could see him again. It was good to see Jeff, although his companion was a little less than charming. We saw <a class="reference external" href="http://www.mamma-mia.com/">Mamma Mia</a>, loved it, and confirmed that really, we are that gay. We learned that Fremont Street is the slightly creepy, single, older uncle of “the Strip,” and that Vegas is the city of extremes. Oh, and just because Binion’s Horseshoe Casino advertises itself as the home of the World Series of Poker doesn’t mean the room aren’t decorated straight from Rent-A-Center, circa 1989.
  </li>
  <li>
    My 28th birthday was Sunday, and to celebrate we had a party on Saturday evening. I’m not usually one for birthday celebrations, but decided to make an exception this year. The result was pleasantly suprising. Now if there had only been a pinata filled with single-serving bottles of booze. Mmmmm…. booze.
  </li>
  <li>
    We began work on the <a class="reference external" href="http://wiki.creativecommons.org/wiki/Developer">Creative Commons Developer Toolkit</a>, a website for collecting sample code, best practices and developer-oriented information on the Commons. We also have <a class="reference external" href="http://wiki.creativecommons.org/wiki/MailingLists">mailing lists</a> .
  </li>
</ul>

I’m going to try and get back in the habit of blogging regularly… it’s a good habit, but one I need to make time for instead of expecting time to appear.


