---
title: Mmm… crow!
date: 2005-02-23T11:52:45.000Z
categories:
  - geek
slug: mmm-crow
---
OK, I admit it. I have been trained from a very early age to respond to guilt. And so, after [yesterday’s entry][1] , I decided that complaining about [NewsFire][2]  is an indefensible position, especially considering how much I’ve used the application. So this morning I shelled out and registered.

But let me clarify one point: I still feel a little duped. So in the interest of constructive criticism (and so I know what to do in the event **I** actually want to charge for an app), I’ve done some thinking about why. Keep in mind that these reasons are firmly rooted in ignorance: I found [NewsFire][2]  via the [OS X RSS Showdown][3] , never really bothered to read much of the background, and still haven’t looked at so much as a FAQ on the site.

So the two thoughts are:

<ul class="simple">
  <li>
    When you download the free version, there didn’t seem to be any mention of the restrictions. I’ve noticed this is true of lots of shareware sites. All I want to do is make an informed decision about what I need: a statement of what’s missing, or (even better) a pretty grid comparing “lite” to “full” would make the process much easier.
  </li>
  <li>
    It wasn’t clear to me that the author eventually intended to charge for the application when I downloaded the beta.
  </li>
</ul>

Damn, and here I thought there was something insightful lying around somewhere.



 [1]: http://yergler.net/blog/archives/2005/02/22/what-you-want-to-eat
 [2]: http://newsfirerss.com/
 [3]: http://www.drunkenblog.com/drunkenblog-archives/000337.html
