---
title: Some thoughts on Mastery
date: 2012-05-13T19:28:15.000Z
categories:
  - practice
slug: mastery
---
A few years ago I decided to take a writing class at City College of San
Francisco. The class was creative non-fiction, memoir writing. I went into it
expecting that it would be fun, but not difficult. When it came time to write my
first assignment, I found that it actually was in fact more challenging than I
expected. But I told myself to keep my butt in the chair, and keep writing. I
completed the assignment and turned it in on a Thursday. The instructor handed
our graded assignments back face down at the end of class on Tuesday. I kept
mine face down as I walked out of the building, looking at it when I finally got
to the street. “A”, followed by glowing and positive comments. I called my best
friend and left him voicemail: “I just got my first assignment back, and I got
an A!” I reported breathlessly. He later told me, “I don’t think I’ve ever heard
you giggle before listening to that message.” In my mind I was already a writer.
No, a Writer: capital “W”. I was going to go forward from that assignment and
only get better, only have success, unleashing my heretofore undiscovered talent
on the world. But that wasn’t the case. When I sat down to write the second
assignment the next evening (“oh, I’ll just sit down and this will flow out of
me; I know what I want to write about, how long can it take to just type it?”),
nothing came out. Well, some words came out, but it was pretty clear they
weren’t what I imagined. The words on the page were a pale reflection of the
idea in my head. I struggled for a couple of hours before calling it a night.
And I did not get an “A” on the second assignment.

I was reminded of this incident recently, thinking about why sometimes things
feel like they flow and I stay with it, and sometimes they don’t and I put it
down. I had a long flight and had brought a book with me: “Mastery: The Keys to
Success and Long-term Fulfillment”, by George Leonard. A colleague had
recommended it to me as we talked about what it means to have mastery of
something (in the case of our conversation, software engineering). It’s a short
book, about 150 pages, and easy to read. The core thing I took away from it was
that mastery is about pursuing a path for its own sake, not for the sake of a
grade or a title. The path to mastery involves seeking instruction, practice,
surrendering your ego, being intentional about what you want, and pushing
yourself just past the edge of what’s comfortable or obvious. I think the most
interesting thing about reading Mastery was how it crystallized other things
I’ve been thinking about or reading since taking that writing class.

Julia Cameron, in The Artist’s Way, talks about “morning pages”: getting up and
writing three pages, even if all you write is “I don’t know what to write”.
Surrendering the idea of a polished product, practicing putting pen to paper,
pushing yourself.

Annie Lamott, in “Bird by Bird”, talks about “shitty first drafts”: again,
surrendering the idea of a polished product, of genius, and committing yourself
to work.

And my print-making mentor, Katie Gilmartin, reminding me gently that Picasso
didn’t make just one bull: he created the image again and again, practicing,
improving his technique. In telling me that she reminds me that it’s not only
acceptable to repeat yourself, it’s desirable.

Finally, when we interview engineering candidates, one of the things we look for
is what they’re doing outside of their job. Some members of the team look for
outside technical projects: are they interested in the field and in learning
more about new things. That’s great, but I tend to look for “what are they
making”. It might be software, it might be paintings, it might be improv. After
reading “Mastery”, I think that I’m looking for a practice. Looking for
something they’re doing just because they love it, not because they’re going to
get paid, recognized, etc.

I think the path to mastery is the path of having a practice. What do I do again
and again, not because I’m going to get an “A”, but because I love it and it
feeds me.


