---
title: Hieroglyph 0.5
date: 2013-01-07T00:00:00.000Z
categories:
  - hieroglyph
tags:
  - hieroglpyh
  - rst
  - slides
  - sphinx
slug: hieroglyph_0_5
---
During the last week of 2012 I pushed out a new release of [Hieroglyph][1]. I
realized later that I haven't really been talking about it here, so I wanted to
mention some of the new features and functionality I've been working on. When I
published the 0.3 release, I said I was planning to work on hooking analytics
into the slide viewing so that creators could get a better sense of how their
slide decks were being used. I have done some work to that end, but would up
getting side tracking.

The 0.4 release consisted primarily of internal cleanups in preparation for
adding analytics support. There were some places where the Javascript or styles
were duplicated, so I put some effort into cleaning that up. I also split up the
Javascript to separate slide control from user interaction. This was done to
support both analytics and the initial implementation of the Presenter's
Console: a separate window that displays the previous, current, and next slides,
and allows the presenter to control the primary display window. With
[Hieroglyph][1]  0.4 and later you can open by pressing `c` within a slide
document.

Hieroglyph 0.4 also added support for slide numbering and for applying a theme
to individual documents inside of a project using the `slideconf` direction. For
example:

```rst
.. slideconf::
   :theme: single-level
```

In December I put together some training for other engineers at Eventbrite
around Python byte and unicode strings, and how to safely work with them both in
our codebase. While I was putting that together, I realized that there was a lot
of text and code samples in the documentation that I wanted to go through
interactively, and not include in slides. I wound up going without slides, and
found that presenting from the Python interactive interpreter was very effective
for this sort of hands on training. That said, it would have been nice to have
had a few key slides: an introduction, a summary of key points, and maybe where
to go next. That's the sort of content I'd like to keep with the main document
so it doesn't drift too far out of sync, but Hieroglyph didn't really support
that approach: it assumed that you wanted to generate a slide per section,
unless you explicitly marked things as `notslides`.

Hieroglyph 0.5 adds a couple of features to support these different work modes.
First, it adds an `autoslides` configuration parameter, that allows you to
disable automatic slide generation of a project or document level. If
`autoslides` is `True` (the default), you'll see the previous Hieroglyph
behavior, one slide per section. If it's set to `False`, you'll need to write
slides using the second new feature, the `slide` directive.

The [slide directive][2]  describes a single slide, including the title, level
(which may be used for styling), and content. An example from the Hieroglyph
[smoketest][3]  document:

```rst
.. slide:: The ``slide`` Directive
   :level: 2

   In addition to headings, you can use the ``..slide::`` directive to
   define a slide.
```

Because the conditional `slides` directive differed by only one letter,
Hieroglyph 0.5 also renamed the conditional directives to `ifslides` and
`ifnotslides`. The previous names will continue to work (at least for a couple
releases), but I'm using the new names myself to make it easier to understand
what's going on.

Thanks to bug reports filed in the [Hieroglyph github project][4], the 0.5
release also includes fixes for styling nested lists and compatibility with the
latex-pdf builder.

At this point Hieroglyph seems to be working pretty well for me and others.
There are a few things I'd like to add yet, but for the next couple of months my
focus is going to be more on using it rather than developing it. I'm working on
more training for new engineers at Eventbrite, and I'll be giving a tutorial of
Effective Django at PyCon this year. I think both of those are going to be good
opportunities use Hieroglyph in different contexts and hopefully get some more
data on what's working or not. If you're using it (or just trying it out) and
have comments or feedback, filing a bug is something I find really helpful.



 [1]: http://hieroglyph.io
 [2]: http://hieroglyph.io/advanced.html#the-slide-directive
 [3]: http://hieroglyph.io/tests/smoketest.html
 [4]: https://github.com/nyergler/hieroglyph
