---
title: Destroyed 0003
date: 2013-08-17T00:00:00.000Z
categories:
  - destroyed
tags:
  - til
slug: destroyed-0003
---
<p class="aside">
  I&#8217;m blogging my way through Gary Bernhardt&#8217;s excellent <a class="reference external" href="https://www.destroyallsoftware.com/screencasts">Destroy All Software</a> series of screencasts. If you write software, you should probably go buy it today.
</p>

In Episode 3, Gary builds a simple version of [RSpec][1] , using [<span class="caps">TDD</span>][2] . I&#8217;d seen him do something similar at the Testing in Python <span class="caps">BOF</span> at PyCon this year, when he trolled the audience with Ruby, challenging the assertion that &#8220;RSpec is hard!&#8221; with derision and flair.

The interesting part about the screencast, then, was watching him drive his coding with tests. I&#8217;d describe myself as a &#8220;testing believer&#8221;, but I think I get tripped up at the same place a lot of people do: where do you begin? How do you know what test to write first, when you don&#8217;t even know what the call interface is going to look like?

So I found myself exclaiming as he began: &#8220;that test doesn&#8217;t do shit!&#8221; Indeed, the first test doesn&#8217;t do anything other that test that there&#8217;s this <tt class="docutils literal">describe</tt> thing, that happens to take an argument. So the primary lesson I took away from Episode 3 was that when it comes to <span class="caps">TDD</span>, you&#8217;d don&#8217;t _have_ to know where you&#8217;d end up. You just need to start.

The other lesson was that the cycle isn&#8217;t &#8220;write tests, write code, fix code until tests pass.&#8221; It&#8217;s more like &#8220;write a test, write a little code, repeat&#8221;. And there&#8217;s an additional step that I don&#8217;t always remember: re-read your previous tests, and refactor as needed.

It&#8217;s interesting watching these screencasts, and feeling like I&#8217;m learning, even though I don&#8217;t really know the language (Ruby). In this episode I learned a little more about Ruby&#8217;s blocks: the interpreter silently ignores a block passed to a function that doesn&#8217;t expect it. I wonder why that is?

I also learned that <tt class="docutils literal">instance_eval</tt> is the core of a lot of Ruby DSLs, and runs a block as if it were applied to an instance (I think I have that right). I think the Python equivalent would be to <tt class="docutils literal">eval</tt> some code with an instance&#8217;s dict as the local context.



 [1]: http://rspec.info/
 [2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Test-driven_development
