---
title: Destroyed 0001
date: 2013-07-29T00:00:00.000Z
categories:
  - destroyed
tags:
  - til
slug: destroyed-0001
---
Some people blog their way through [Knuth][1]  or [SICP][2] . My attention span
is somewhat shorter lately. I've recently begun watching Gary Bernhardt's
excellent [Destroy All Software][3]  screencasts, and I thought it'd be fun to
blog my way through it with a series of short posts on what I learned from each
episode. I've watched a few as I start this, and I think that if you write
software and care about writing _good_ software, you should probably go buy DAS
now.

I watched [Episode 1][4]  on my way to OSCON about a week ago. In it Gary works
through building a small `bash` script to calculate some statistics on a git
repository (for example, how many lines of code there were at given points in
time). The git plumbing bits were pretty interesting, but it was the actual
process that was really educational.

One of the first things he also does is map a key to save and then run his
script. I almost found myself coveting [Vim][5]  for a moment, because it seems
obvious now that having an immediate feedback loop is actually superior to
switching between Emacs and a terminal.

As Gary builds out the script, he points out a few things, like using `set -e`,
and "always quote your arguments". (It makes a missing argument fallback to an
empty string, which programs like `grep` are perfectly happy with.) That sort of
casual, fingertip knowledge is a joy to watch. I guess I haven't written enough
in `bash` to know better than to check my exit codes manually for things. `set
-e` is obviously better. Way better.

And have you ever considered that `bash` control structures like `while` and
`for` have a `stdin` and `stdout`? They do. It seemed obvious once I saw him do
it, and when I think about the way `bash` works, it makes sense in a consistency
sort of way. But until now I'd never considered piping the output of, say,
`grep` to a control structure.

Watching DAS S1E1 I learned a few things about shell scripting that seem really
fundamental, which I wish I'd have known about for, well, years. I also realized
that I have this weird mix of git knowledge: I understand that it's a directed
acyclic graph and a bunch of the underlying structures. I also am proficient at
using [magit][6]  to manipulate a repository within Emacs. The [git
porcelain][7] ? Not so much.

Finally, I thought it was interesting to see and listen to Gary refactoring a
bash script using some of the same principles that I use when looking at Python
code. Specifically, wanting to make code easy to _read_, not just execute.



 [1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Art_of_Computer_Programming
 [2]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Structure_and_Interpretation_of_Computer_Programs
 [3]: https://www.destroyallsoftware.com/screencasts
 [4]: https://www.destroyallsoftware.com/screencasts/catalog/statistics-over-git-repositories
 [5]: http://www.vim.org/
 [6]: http://magit.github.io/magit/
 [7]: http://git-scm.com/book/ch9-1.html
