---
title: 'Experiments with Rust & WebAssembly'
author: Nathan Yergler
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=2843
categories:
  - Software
tags:
  - rust
  - webassembly
kind:
  - Note

---
Over the last two months I&#8217;ve had the opportunity to explore three things that are new to me and how they fit together: Rust, WebAssembly, and OpenGL. I&#8217;m going to focus on the first two in this post, with a later post on how OpenGL fits into it.

_All code from this post, along with a working example, is available [on GitHub][1]._

I&#8217;ve been interested in Rust for a while, and did some experimenting with it around two years ago. My experiment at the time was rebuilding a tiny service in the Remind architecture using it, just to get a feel. The service was simple: respond to HTTP requests, manage state in Redis, emit some telemetry. The previous iteration was built using Go, which seemed like a natural fit for something so network I/O bound. I was curious how moving from a language with concurrency primitives to one while strives to remove the underlying issues with concurrency would feel. My recollection from that experience was that the initial startup cost was &#8220;higher&#8221; than with Go, but that once I&#8217;d let go of my preconceptions about how things were supposed to work, it went pretty smoothly. I also recalled that the compiler gave the most useful feedback of any I&#8217;d used.

WebAssembly is something I&#8217;ve been watching out the corner of my eye. It&#8217;s not the first effort to run &#8220;native-ish&#8221; code inside the browser (see NaCL, asm.js, emscripten), but it was interesting that it had the weight of standardization behind it. I&#8217;ll admit that I have some ambivalence about the browser moving further away from being an Agent of the User (er, user-agent), but the idea that you could share complex code between web and mobile applications was appealing. When I saw that Rust had [landed a WebAssembly backend][2] in the nightly builds, I decided to figure out how you&#8217;d go about building a library in Rust that could be consumed on the Web and with iOS.

### Targeting WebAssembly with Rust

There are plenty of examples of how to target WebAssembly with Rust using emscripten. I was interested in figuring out how to do it without the emscripten toolchain, though. I read many of these posts for &#8220;inspiration&#8221; (see Bibliography below), but had to figure out a few things myself.

First, you need to install the nightly toolchain in order to take advantage of WebAssembly. If you&#8217;re using rustup (and I think you should), this is as simple as:

    $ rustup install nightly
    

After that you can target WebAssembly with any Cargo build by specifying the toolchain and target:

    $ cargo +nightly build --target=wasm32-unknown-unknown --release
    

WebAssembly&#8217;s &#8220;mental model&#8221; is one of dynamically loaded modules. In order to create a `.wasm` file you can load in your browser, you need to specify that you&#8217;re building a [`cdylib` crate][3]. You can do this by specifying the `crate_type` in `Cargo.toml`.

    [lib]
    crate_type=["cdylib"]
    

Let&#8217;s look at a relatively simple function in Rust that we want to make available via WebAssembly.

<pre><code class="rust">#[no_mangle]
pub extern "C" fn sum(a: i32, b: i32) -&gt; i32 {
    a + b
}
</code></pre>

You&#8217;ll note that the signature has a couple of extra bits:

  * `#[no_mangle]`
  * `extern`
  * `"C"`

I&#8217;ve seen multiple people talk about using [wasm-gc][4] on the result, so I did, too. Is it necessary? It&#8217;s not clear to me at the moment, but it does shrink the size, which I suppose is useful when it comes to transfer and load times.

So my final build script looked something like this:

    #!/bin/sh
    
    set -euo pipefail
    
    cargo +nightly build --target wasm32-unknown-unknown --release
    
    mkdir build/
    wasm-gc ./target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release/wasm_oxide.wasm ./build/rust_oxide.wasm
    

### Consuming WebAssembly

Once you have your `.wasm` file, it&#8217;s time to load it up.

`wasm-utils.js` from MDN &#8212; https://github.com/mdn/webassembly-examples

Webpack/running/example

wargo-loader, et al

### Putting it together

So if it&#8217;s _just that easy_, what&#8217;s the big deal? Well&#8230; it turns out that WebAssembly only speaks in floats and ints (i32, i64, f32, f64). This means that you have to think a bit about how

kafferost

### Bibliography

 [1]: https://github.com/nyergler/rust-oxide
 [2]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/46115
 [3]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/reference/linkage.html
 [4]: https://github.com/alexcrichton/wasm-gc