---
title: Thoughts on the IndieWeb
date: '-001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00'
draft: true
categories:
  - Uncategorized
slug: '?p=3320'
---
I bought a Windows laptop &#8212; a Dell XPS 13 to be specific &#8212; a couple months ago to try it out. Two weeks later the refreshed Macbook Pros were released, and even some questionable design decisions on Apple&#8217;s part, I returned my Dell and bought the Macbook Pro. The Dell hardware is arguably a better value, and Windows 10 is not the Windows XP I last used regularly. I described it to a friend in this way: &#8220;I don&#8217;t want to use my computer primarily for configuring/figuring out my computer&#8221;. In other words, yes, it was possible to do what I wanted to do with it, but I had to figure out how to do that at each step. The fact I live my work and mobile life on Apple products meant that I was doomed to a cross-OS world, which did not give me much hope for ever feeling &#8220;settled&#8221;.

I share this anecdote because it&#8217;s sort of how I feel about &#8220;IndieWeb&#8221; things these days. I think I feel more interested in getting them to work than I did my XPS 13, but I still sort of feel like I wind up using, say Micro.blog, to figure out how to use Micro.blog as a part of the larger Indieweb.

This isn&#8217;t the first time I&#8217;ve felt a general dissatisfaction with my tools: this blog has lived as TextPattern, Blosxom, PyBlosxom, WordPress, MoinMoin, Pelican, and finally WordPress, again. [I may have the order a little off, and it&#8217;s even possible I&#8217;m missing one or two iterations.] I came back to WordPress earlier this year not because I love it all that much, but out of fatigue/resignation: I don&#8217;t want to spend all my energy just figuring out my tools.

I read about aggregators, readers, &#8220;publishing clients&#8221;, and think, &#8220;YES! Decentralization! _This_ is the world I want to be living in!&#8221; But then I read about IndieAuth and try to figure out, &#8220;wait, so am I authorizing or authenticating? Am I making a bunch of little silos?&#8221; quickly followed by &#8220;my brain hurts!&#8221;

Case in point: IndieBookClub has a cute name and seems like a clever idea. I deleted my GoodReads account some time ago because it felt like I was reading just to meet a goal there or mark another book as &#8220;read&#8221;. Even so, I still like to share what I&#8217;m reading, especially if it moves me. So I tried IndieBookClub and successfully shared a post on Micro.blog. _But&#8230;_ it doesn&#8217;t seem like the &#8220;post kind&#8221; metadata makes it to Micro.blog, which seems like a problem for aggregation. It lives on at IBC, but I&#8217;m not sure what good that does me.

So what I find myself wanting is &#8220;IndieWeb-in-a-box&#8221;:
