---
title: Why I stopped blogging
date: 2024-12-29T14:36:17.000Z
slug: why-i-stoppped-blogging
tags:
  - rebound
  - blogging
  - reflection
categories:
  - my life
---

I've had this article open in my browser since it showed up on
lobste.rs or HN, so at least 3 months: [Why I still blog after
15
years](https://www.jonashietala.se/blog/2024/09/25/why_i_still_blog_after_15_years/).

When I read it the first time, everything in it resonated for
me: yes, I started blogging to work through things "out loud";
yes, documenting what I was working on -- personally and
otherwise -- helped propel me forward (one could make the
argument that it's the reason I have the career I do today); and
yes, I felt a sense of accomplishment when I looked back on what
I'd written in a week, month, or year. So if all of that is
true, I thought, why was my last post in 2020? And why was the
last time I posted consistently almost a decade ago?

It's not insignificant that any consistency I had with blogging
ceased [when I left](/2011/04/18/the-new-thing/) [Creative
Commons](https://creativecommons.org) for Eventbrite. One
reason, perhaps more obvious, is that my work at CC was public
by default, so anything I was working on I could talk about. And
talking about it was, arguably, my job. When I started working
at Eventbrite, that was no longer the case: not only was some of
my work private, most of it felt too specific, too "brite".

The other reason, though, may be less obvious: when I got to
Eventbrite, I had to work much harder than I had before. One of
the things that made CC such a special place for me is that my
job was effectively "figure out how to spread this using
technology", and whatever I came up with was fair game. At
Eventbrite I suddenly had managers telling me, "this needs to
happen, figure it out." And even though I knew a lot of what I
needed to be successful, there was _a lot_ I didn't know. I
didn't know how to work with an operations team; I didn't have a
great grasp on QA; I definitely had never worked on a codebase
as large as Eventbrite's. By the time I finished my day, I
didn't have the capacity to think or write or synthesize more
information. And that difficulty didn't really subside; when it
started to I would feel bored and go looking for something else;
this culminated in starting [Polytomic](https://polytomic.com),
the hardest thing I've ever done professionally.

Given all of that, I think it's notable that I kept the blog
alive at all. And more than keeping it alive, I kept fiddling
with it: moving it from Linode to DreamPress to Hugo; fixing the
formatting of content; writing little posts here and there. Now
in some cases the fiddling was definitely a substitute for
actually writing, but I think this is evidence there's a "there
there": something about blogging feels important to me.

It's natural to take stock of things at the end of the year and
the beginning of a new one, and one thing that's come up for me
is that I want to find out just what it is I get from blogging.
Can I figure out how to write about what I'm working on in a way
that helps me synthesize more effectively? Would writing about my art practice, sewing, reading, etc lead to feeling more engaged? I don't know, but I'm going to try and find out.
